Example for CSS round() (#22528)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/round/index.md

The **`round()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions) returns a rounded number based on a selected rounding strategy.

> The function should be used with [custom CSS property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/--*) for either (or both) of the rounding value or interval; if these have fixed values then there is no need to use the `round()` method.

Reviewer: Minor reword, what do you think?

```suggestion
Authors should use a [custom CSS property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/--*) (e.g., `--my-property`) for the rounding value, interval, or both; using the `round()` function is redundant if these have known values.
```

> The function should be used with [custom CSS property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/--*) for either (or both) of the rounding value or interval; if these have fixed values then there is no need to use the `round()` method.

Reviewer: Good point. The spec has this to say:

>Unlike languages like JavaScript which have a natural "precision" to round to (integers), CSS values have no such precision because values can be written in many different compatible units. As such, the precision has to be given explicitly; to round a width to the nearest 50px, one can write round(var(--width), 50px).

## Syntax

```css
width: round(var(--width), 50px);
width: round(up, 101px, var(--interval));
width: round(down, var(--height), var(--interval));

> margin: round(to-zero, -105px, 10px);

Author: FYI, this is why I love live examples. On first review:
1. It did not occur to me that width here requires a unit, so the rounding value and interval require a unit. I presume they require the same unit, but have not checked.
2. This should be used with `var` - I've therefore made more examples use var.

  - `up` - If `valueToRound` is positive (not zero), return `+∞`. If `valueToRound` is `0⁺`, return `0⁺`. Otherwise, return `0⁻`.
  - `down` - If `valueToRound` is negative (not zero), return `−∞`. If `valueToRound` is `0⁻`, return `0⁻`. Otherwise, return `0⁺`.
  - `nearest`, `to-zero` - If `valueToRound` is positive or `0⁺`, return `0⁺`. Otherwise, return `0⁻`.

- The argument calculations can resolve to {{CSSxREF("&lt;number&gt;")}}, {{CSSxREF("&lt;dimension&gt;")}}, or {{CSSxREF("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, but must have the same type, or else the function is invalid; the result will have the same type as the arguments.
- If `valueToRound` is exactly equal to an integer multiple of `roundingInterval`, `round()` resolves to `valueToRound` exactly (preserving whether `valueToRound` is `0⁻` or `0⁺`, if relevant). Otherwise, there are two integer multiples of `roundingInterval` that are potentially "closest" to `valueToRound`, lower `roundingInterval` which is closer to `−∞` and upper `roundingInterval` which is closer to `+∞`.

### Formal syntax

{{CSSSyntax}}

## Examples

### Round positive values

> This example demonstrate how the `round()` function rounding strategies work for positive values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how the `round()` function's rounding strategies work for positive values.
```

> The `round()` values is used to set the height of four boxes (of five).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of the five boxes below, the `round()` function is used to set the height of the last four.
```

The value to be rounded is between 100 px and 125 px in each case, and the rounding value is 25px in all cases.
The height of the boxes is therefore either rounded up to 125 px or down to 100 px.

#### HTML

The HTML defines 5 `div` elements that will be rendered as boxes by the CSS.
The elements contain text indicating the rounding strategy, initial value, and expected final height of the box (in brackets).

```html
<div class="box box-1">height: 100px</div>
<div class="box box-2">up 101px (125px)</div>
<div class="box box-3">down 122px (100px)</div>
<div class="box box-4">to-zero 120px (100px)</div>
<div class="box box-5">nearest 117px (125px)</div>
```

#### CSS

```css hidden
body {
  height: 100vh;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  gap: 50px;
}
```

The CSS that is applied to all boxes is shown below.
Note that we apply a [custom CSS property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/--*) named `--rounding-interval`, that we will use for the rounding interval.

```css
div.box {
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
  background: lightblue;
  padding: 5px;
  --rounding-interval: 25px;
}
```

> The first `div` from the left doesn't have an specific CSS, so will have the default height of 100 px.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first `div` from the left isn't targeted with specific CSS rules, so it will have a default height of 100px.
```

> The CSS for `div` two, three and four are shown below, which round, up, down, and to-zero respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CSS for `div` two, three, and four is shown below, which round, up, down, and to-zero, respectively.
```

```css
div.box-2 {
  height: round(up, 101px, var(--rounding-interval));
}
div.box-3 {
  height: round(down, 122px, var(--rounding-interval));
}
div.box-4 {
  height: round(to-zero, 120px, var(--rounding-interval));
}
```

Notice how above we indicate the rounding interval using `var()` and the custom CSS property `--rounding-interval`.

The last box is set without specifying a rounding strategy, and hence defaults to `nearest`.
In this case, the nearest interval to 117 px is 125px, so it will round up.
Just for contrast, here we specified hard coded values for both the rounding value and interval.
While this is allowed, you wouldn't do this normally because there is no point rounding a number when you already know what the result must be.

```css
div.box-5 {

>   height: round(117px, 25px);

Reviewer: What do you think about including this in the CSS block below `div.box-4`?

Author: I think it worth pulling it out because it is kind of "don't do this".
